and see that it's working.
This is August 16, sitting in the quiet front room, 405 Timber in College Station with Jim Hennigan.
And Jim, use your mic now.
Okay.
What do you want to say?
Or you just want to use it?
Is it good enough?
I don't know about this.
We did this in front of Jeanette's dad, and he panicked.
Boy, he just froze.
All right, Jim, let's see.
for someone who might not know you, who might use this materials in years in the future, give a brief summary of your experience growing up and so forth before you came to A&M, where and so forth.
Well, we were born in Houston, grew up in Pasadena, Texas.
During that time,
I had, you know, enjoyed school.
Became a, I was a very young Eagle Scout.
And Bill Lay, our former admissions officer, was my den chief when I was in the Cubs.
But I played in the band and really enjoyed school.
I worked from the third grade on.
In third grade I worked sweeping the school and then carried the paper out.
So it was pretty normal.
All right.
Why did you attend A&M instead of some other place, sir?
Yeah.
Well, you asked me that.
I had an opportunity to go to A&M or Rice.
And I visited one weekend.
I came up to A&M in 1949 and visited again with Bill Lay out on the annex and the tar paper shacks.
but was also offered a $250 opportunity award scholarship to come to A&M, and without that, I couldn't have made it.
But I came, so I made a decision.
Rice was too scientific, I thought, and A&M was more applied, so I feel it's turned out about that way.
Now you didn't have any family that had come to A&M?
No, none of my family had been to—I was kind of the first generation.
Dad finished the fourth grade, but he was real sharp.
He was an engineering assistant, but he finished the fourth grade and then learned it all himself from then on.
When you came up here to enroll, how did you get here?
The folks brought me and brought me over to the band dorm and over by the theater.
Right across the street from the old theater was the band dorm, freshman band dorm in those days.
And I remember they drove up and we set my footlocker out on the curb and they said, we'll see you.
And the guy, the senior there says, we'll take care of it.
And they did, but I thought that was funny.
That footlocker, was that one you bought there?
No, that was one—bought it years ago.
You just got a footlocker in an academy or somebody had footlockers we bought.
And that's where you—everything was in that.
All right.
What did you—do you remember what you brought in terms of gear and paraphernalia and other stuff?
Gosh, no.
We had a list, as always, like six towels, two sheets, and all that.
But I do remember they sent our clothes home, as I remember they sent our civilian clothes home once we got our uniform.
Did you bring anything like a typewriter, a radio?
No, didn't have any of that.
Bought a radio in the senior year, a typewriter,
I think I did get one from home that was antique and it wouldn't work worth it too, but yeah.
All right.
What was your, well, describe your impression of the campus.
What did the campus look like when you arrived?
Fear, I think was my expression.
After, you know, I got in, after I got in my room and everything, I began to see what it was about.
But it was like a, like a great experience that was coming up, but looking forward to it, a great experience.
And the campus was clean and well taken care of even in those days.
And I just thought it would be a great time, great experience.
And to what dorm and outfit were you assigned?
I was assigned to the freshman band.
I believe that was in, gee, I'm sorry, I don't remember.
I know it's right across from the, from the,
movie theater now, but that's a freshman band.
So I was there the first year I was here.
In 50, the freshman lived over on the Sabisa side of the campus, all freshmen.
So we had freshmen and we did the marching and led the.
About how many were in the freshman band?
I'd say 120, including Clayton Williams.
He was in there, but.
Any other notable Texas names in that group?
Well, Tom Barron just died.
Not in that group, but when I was in the, in the Corps a little later, H.P.
Zachary lived down the hall and he was, you know.
Did you know, did you know who Clady was as a freshman?
He lived right across the hall and over one, so.
Describe him.
Oh boy, he was, he was an interesting, he's a real,
You know, it was kind of his first chance to go to college, and he was a real, real country boy from West Texas.
And he was always real funny and joking, and he slept a lot, but he was just a, you know, normal guy.
Was he that outgoing person then that he is now?
Yeah, and yeah, he was, in kind of a basic way.
I mean, he would laugh and seem to enjoy life quite a bit.
Let's see.
As a freshman, you were assigned to the freshman band.
Describe the typical routine of a day of classes in the freshman band.
What time did you get up?
What did you all do during the day?
And what time did the day end?
Well, the day ended about 2 in the morning.
I remember that.
and we would sleep about four or five hours, get about 6.30 as I remember.
The Whistlejog had to get up a little earlier at 6 or something like that.
And so we farmed up and then we marched, of course, to Subison.
And as soon as that was over, we had to come back, run back to the dorm basically and then break for class and go to class.
Did you play your instruments in that march?
Not every morning.
No, it seemed like it was just, no, not every morning.
All right, so you went to class.
Did everybody have an 8 o'clock?
Everybody had an 8 o'clock and everybody had a 12 o'clock on Saturday, it seemed like.
I think, yeah, we went to 12 on Saturday.
So it was a full, not everybody, but classes were held then, yeah.
It was a full day.
What about after?
Taking 20 hours about.
in the band and other activities so.
Did you have a major already selected?
Yes I did.
I came in mechanical engineering and I busted ME 213 and I figured if I busted that then that was certainly the wrong major for me.
So I then went to industrial engineering which was in those days had just been, name had just been changed from management engineering to industrial.
Yeah, I still remember that course.
Now is that your freshman year?
Yes, that's my freshman year.
200 course?
No, I'm sorry, I don't think.
No, that must have been my sophomore year.
Yeah, so I was a freshman in ME and then a sophomore year.
All right, as a freshman, what did you fish do in the afternoons?
Did you have any free time during the week?
You know, I don't remember much free time.
It was crunch, crunch.
And I think we were taking about 20 hours.
And the other things, we didn't have much money to go, you know, to do much.
So we kind of made our own activities.
And one, the seniors used to bowl, you know, used to store Coke bottles in the end of the hall.
And the seniors would come in and throw things into the Coke bottles at night.
And they would just be broken all over the place.
A couple of activities we did is we threw water on some people and things like that.
Were any of those organized?
Well, when I was a freshman, the second week here, we got, one guy was a little smart aleck, so 10 of us decided to throw water on him.
So we filled our buckets full of water, and that night we heard that's what you do at A&M.
but we didn't realize you only throw one bucket and then put a little board over the door.
So ten of us threw buckets and we couldn't get the door shut and he came out and slipped and broke his head man just blood all over the floor so we had to carry him over to the to the
to the hospital and another guy ran through some broken coke bottles and we had to carry him over.
So we had two guys.
So therefore we got in trouble and I was campus then for two months by General Boatner.
Campus meaning every hour on the weekend you had to be in uniform and sign in for a couple months.
Did that also mean you could not leave the campus during that hour?
Right.
You had to stay on campus.
Not that I remember.
Well, I'm not sure, but you had to be there on the hour.
That was funny.
Now, this person that y'all drunk the water on, was he a sophomore?
No, he was a freshman.
He had ROTC in Dallas, and he was a big, you know, really going to show us all how to do it, and we all got, said, well, that's not the way it works.
Did he ever retaliate?
No, no.
He didn't pay y'all back for that?
Well, that's about ten to one.
Well, let's define the word hazing however you want to.
Can you give any examples of freshmen being hazed your first year?
Yeah.
Well, hazing's hard to identify when you got, because as you know, the Japanese aircraft carrier pilots
the instructors carried a board and when they made a bad landing they gave them, you know, whacked them pretty good.
Let's see, what?
Did y'all ever get whacked?
Yeah, let's see.
Well, yeah, now as a freshman we didn't get paddled, but at the end of the freshman year you had what's called get your handle beat off.
So you lose the term freshman.
So some guys came by three,
juniors in the band came over to the freshman area looking for freshmen, so somehow I got involved.
So we went out in the country here, and I got nine licks with a one-by-four about four feet long.
That's called beating your handle off.
One for each letter in your name?
No, no, just three licks from each guy.
Oh, oh, oh.
So for a total of nine.
Everybody got met.
Yeah, those that were exposed to that.
So I went home after that.
And mom about came, she said, why are you walking funny?
She about came apart and dad saw it and he just laughed.
And when I had circles, I had a blue circle.
blue black and then I had a purple and then I had a yellow.
So it was really kind of terrible looking, two circles on your back.
So that was not fun at all in the freshman year.
Now did you bare your bottom for those or did you wear them?
No, no you just wear your, you just kind of stand up straight.
Through your trousers.
You bet, boy.
And when we were a junior that guy hit my roommate three times and
The third time he hit him low so Sid called a lick on him and came around and hit him right in the middle of the back accidentally but he didn't paddle Sid anymore after that.
Let's see, other hazing or howard that you remember from your freshman year.
Well, you know, hazing is kind of interesting.
I have a case here I thought was interesting where I'd been here about three weeks, and the senior told me to crawl under the table.
He gave me a bowl of mustard and said, crawl under the tables, and I did, and paint the guy's boots with mustard.
I went under there and did that.
and got back, and we sat there, and we were, so we sat a little longer than normal, and when he got up, the blood curdling scream, everybody enjoyed that.
He looked down at his boots, and they were all yellow as buster.
Boy, was he ticked.
So they were not aware that you had done that?
Well, I'd been ordered by the senior over here.
And I don't know how, because I crawled right down their legs.
They must, you know, the other people at the table must have been aware.
But that was the first thing, Haskell, that I, it made a difference.
Here I did some first order.
I did it.
And being a little guy from high school, you know, timid, this really made a difference.
I remember that.
Yeah, it made a real difference.
Did that, with upperclassmen, were you aware that that kind of got you an acceptance to them?
Were you part of the group?
Yeah, I guess so, mm-hmm, I guess so.
What about your fish old lady?
Did you have a special freshman roommate?
Yeah, the guy from high school, Sidney Fulgin.
He finished, he flew about 30 years in the Air Force and he finished as a colonel.
F-U-L-G-H-A-M, from Pasadena, Texas, yeah.
And he's retired over in, over near Austin.
But I tell you one thing, when I, after I'd thrown water, thrown, after we'd gotten campus, well, after I'd gotten campus, the guys decided one night to go steal the Baylor Cubs.
Oh, they'll call me.
Anyway, so they decided to go steal the Baylor Bears.
And I couldn't go because I was camping, see.
And they went over there in a coop.
guy named Baylor, B-O-E-H-L-E-R, I remember.
It was his car and the Bears, they went on and stole the two Bears and they just tore that car up, put him in the back and then gave, didn't know what to do so gave him the loophole and he called the highway patrol and said, I don't know how I got here but there seemed to be two Bears tied behind my store.
That was funny.
So, I don't know about
Hazing was here from the beginning, but, you know, being real timid from high school, I had to, you know, you did all kind of things they'd haze you to do.
Go do this and do that and it made a difference.
Did you ever, do you remember anything during your freshman year that looking back you think was inappropriate in the way some freshmen were treated?
No, I really don't.
I enjoyed it and I felt like I had made a decision to be there and nobody got hurt.
You know, you got fussed at all the time and had to stand against the wall and all that.
But as a freshman, we were separating.
And we didn't have quite the, quite the attention, you might say, that we got when we moved over to the band.
So we actually had two years as a freshman.
Freshman year, and then we moved over to the band, and we were sophomores, but they had never had us, never had us over there before.
So that was our first year in the band.
So we got two years of pretty good hazing.
Did you, as a freshman,
Did you march with the band at athletic events?
I don't think so.
I don't remember.
I do remember we had our own freshman band.
We had reviews and everything using that band.
But you didn't march at football games?
Well, you know, we must have.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, Haskell.
What did you, what instrument?
I played the clarinet.
Clarinet.
Not well, but I played it.
Who was the band director in those days?
Colonel Adams.
Describe Colonel Adams.
Well, you know, as a freshman, sophomore, you really didn't get to know him too well.
I was in the band two years is what I'm leading up to.
My grades got so bad that McQuillan gave me an option of staying in the band or staying in A&M, kind of.
So I said, well, I'll take that.
So he had me change outfits.
But the band was real...
Real wild, took up a lot of your time.
I remember shining doorknobs as a sophomore till three in the morning before a major physics test at seven or eight.
I just remember then.
Anyway.
As you look back during that freshman year, who were some
instructors, faculty members, and or advisors that were important to you?
Dean Ransdell, who was the head of the freshman division, he showed great interest in people.
Crawford was the only
The only prof that talked to me as a person when I was there.
The old engineering prof who had a bad hand.
This is one reason when I came back I said I was going to work with the kids because he's the only one that showed an interest as I remember.
How did he show that interest?
Well, he'd be willing to talk to you and come in and help if you need any problems.
We'll work some problems.
He just seemed to be a real fine fellow.
What about Dean Ransel?
Dean Ransdell was the dean.
He administered the tests and placement things and he was an outstanding gentleman really.
I got to know him much better when I came back.
What about other instructors that were important to you that freshman year?
Well, there was an instructor, I don't remember much about, made a poor grade on English test.
And I went in and he called me and said, now why'd you make this, you know, this is a terrible grade.
I said, well, I had things on my mind and what it was, my dad was an alcoholic for many years.
And he said something that, of course, I remember ever since and that is that you can either be that way
or another way.
And ever since that, that's another little thing in life I now remember.
You can either be that way or you can go the other way.
All right, during that freshman year.
Freshman year.
You didn't have any wheels.
No, no, there was only about 20 cars on campus as I remember.
When you did go back home, how did you get there?
We walked to, I walked to, to Eastgate, Texas.
And we had a line there.
We'd get out of class, and as you, as everybody's told, you put a suitcase there or your bag or a Coke bottle or whatever in line, and then the freshman would get out there and thumb.
And if someone stopped, you'd ask him where you're going, Houston, and how many can you take?
He said, take two.
So we'd call the next two that were sitting under the tree, and the next two cases, whether they're freshmen or seniors, you've got to go.
Yeah.
Could you get somebody to take your bag out there for you early?
Was that allowed?
I don't remember, but I don't remember as a freshman, you know, certainly.
The other thing I do remember we used to do on hitchhiking, the guy in the front seat always stayed awake with the driver, kind of keep their eye on what's going on.
Other two guys could sleep.
Did you ever have any bad experience Aggie hitchhiking?
Not a, not a, not a bit.
I've not heard of him yet.
In fact, we had one guy went to a wedding in Minnesota, a guy from Pasadena, and he hitchhiked over the weekend.
It just took him about three or four days.
He went to Minnesota and came back.
Now, if you wear the uniform in those days, you didn't, you, and pretty clean cuts.
Not like today, you see the, the rule.
But I think very few people had cars.
We only had one car.
and of course now I've got more than that.
When you were coming back, where in the Houston area was the magic place?
There was a line, as I remember, called the Aggie Line out on Washington, and everybody knew about where it was, and so some of the guys, their parents would take them back, or some of them did—a few of them might have had cars, but everybody knew where the Aggie Line was, and mother would
drive me over there right now.
About three times I took the trains.
He'd drive me to the train station from Pasadena to train station downtown Houston.
So I got to ride the train about three times.
You said you had a $250 opportunity award scholarship.
And my total expenses for the year covering everything for nine months was $900.
So that was a little more than a fourth of your actual expenses.
Yeah.
And I worked, Dad always made me save a fourth of everything I ever earned for college.
So I had about $800 at the time.
Do you remember about how much money you had for spending money as we might have phrased it then?
Yeah, I had about $2 a month maybe.
Okay.
And what did you spend at all?
Sometimes I went to a movie.
Most of the time I studied.
I'd study on the weekend.
We had a few dates and I spent some money there, but mother would bring, if we'd get a date for a big ball or something, she'd bring them up.
Usually bring up two or three girls from Pasadena and they'd find a place at a prof's house or something, you know, this thing.
As a freshman, do you remember any dating?
or was that later years?
Well, I came from A&M, pardon me, when I came from high school, I was really a weenie.
I was really backward and very timid, you might say.
But, yeah, I had some beautiful girls.
They're very nice girls the mother brought up to different activities.
And that's as a freshman, freshman ball, I remember.
But, you know, no one to date here sort of thing.
Now that was held in Cebisa?
Yeah, most of them were held in Cebisa, as I remember.
All right, now let's jump to the sophomore year.
Do you remember what you did that summer after your freshman year?
Yeah, I was fortunate enough to get a job at Sinclair in Pasadena.
And what's funny, I look back at this and say, you know, you had shift work, so I went on one shift and then,
Somehow the second shift relief wouldn't come so I had to work two shifts and just I worked two shifts most of the summer.
I really don't know if the foreman or superintendent was an Aggie or not but I sure made a lot of money and could pay for my school so yet my relief never showed up so that was during the summer and worked three summers.
The Opportunity Award, was that only your freshman year?
No, it was four years.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Yeah.
And then we got, when we were in the second, the second, no, the third and fourth year, we got $30 a month that helped all that.
So it was, it was hard to find.
You're still in the band.
Still in the first half, still in the band through football season, through the first semester.
And where were y'all quartered then?
We were quartered in dorm 12, where they are now.
I believe they're in 12.
Okay.
Yeah, dorm 12.
In the, quote, new dorm area.
Right, right.
All right.
Was the routine over there much different than it had been?
Well, remember we were freshmen the second time.
We got harassed terribly over there.
After we left the freshmen, we had juniors and seniors as our leaders and we went over there and you had the sophomores that were sophomores were now, no, freshmen last year were now sophomores.
So anyway, it was two years of that as a sophomore.
Did y'all make, did you make any memorable trips with the band that second year?
Well, we made a couple court trips.
I don't remember where to, of course.
But I do remember going to Austin in one.
They said everybody had to carry a sock with a piece of soap in it in case we got beat up.
I mean, you know, that was going to be our club.
So they just did all kind of things.
Now, nothing, I presume there wasn't any problem.
No.
Oh, no.
No, everything was.
And did you all march down Congress Avenue?
As I remember, yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, as I remember.
Sophomore year.
Let's see.
All right, were there any, that sophomore year, any special teachers, advisors that became important to you?
Any courses that kind of changed your path?
No, no.
It was just a terrible year.
First year I made very high grades because it was a repeat of high school.
And the second year was a little bit tougher.
And then I had some problems at home, quite a few problems there.
And that's why now I talk to the kids if they have bad grades.
I've always called them in if they make less than 70 and say, now, what did I do wrong or what's your problem?
And many times you learn these.
I realized that—and you could more or less readjust their direction kind of—and I realized that.
All right, so your second year, your grades weren't as good.
Right.
But you didn't flunk out.
No, no.
And did you think about transferring?
I thought about everything, yes.
I tell you, that was a pretty terrifying time of a kid's life.
You feel your life's on the line when really it's just trying to learn another subject.
So transferring, yeah.
Well, I don't know though.
I mean, I thought of all kind of things.
How did I get out of this?
But I was fixed.
I didn't have enough money to do anything.
And here I got the 250.
And that plus the, oh, 700 or 800.
I mean, it makes more than that.
But anyway, I'd have some left over.
So what I made in the summer of that 250 made a great difference.
Now, I never really thought of quitting.
Now I had some friends that came down with me at the same time and they quit within a few months.
But no, I wanted to play the game.
Okay, and so you shifted from mechanical to what we now call industrial.
Yeah.
And at the end of the sophomore year you felt pretty sure that that was the appropriate major.
Other than calculus.
Yeah, I felt it was calculus and thermal.
But other than those, that was later.
Other than that, I had trouble with that.
I think I made it, but it was tough.
And you dropped out of the band.
Yeah, I dropped out of the band and moved to dorm two, in squadron two, and was there then, end of my sophomore year and through the
Junior year yeah in squadron two.
Was a transfer into that unit were you teased or?
No it was real smooth I don't remember any problem any problem at all.
Now let's see MSC was not yet
See, it was finished in 50, wasn't it?
So it was just, it was small, but it was, it was completed, yeah.
But not yet with the big important.
Oh, no, no.
Dine Hall was a place for movies and lectures and so forth.
And Joni James.
Joni James.
It was a concert.
Who else would came?
She was very, everybody remembered her pretty well.
Oh, yes, yes.
Because we were in the balcony, you see.
And when she would lean over to sing to the first row, everybody in the balcony would about, oh, they just roared to the edge of the balcony.
I don't know, they're just kind of interested in hearing her singing, I guess, you know.
There you go.
That was hilarious.
Now, were there other famous performers you remember who came?
Remember, I didn't have any money.
I had zero money.
And I'll never forget, I had 20 cents.
We had two weeks until I had a bill of 30 bucks.
And I went to the fair with some guys, and they each dropped $20 on the shell game.
I had 20 cents.
And that I remember well.
But somehow, you know, we got enough to make it.
Now this was the state fair?
Well, it was Brian, no, Brian over here.
We just went there one day and it used to be over, well, in old Brian, old fairgrounds here, but anyway.
Let's see.
I remember them tearing down again too when I came back as a prop.
Boy, they beat that thing and beat it.
Were there any, did you take part in any religious activities in that era?
No, I went to church every Sunday.
Where?
First Baptist Church across the campus in Northgate.
What led you to go there?
Was that family background?
Oh, you mean Baptist?
Well, that's kind of my background.
I mean, Dad was a Baptist, Mother was a Catholic, and so I just kind of chose the Baptist approach, conservative Baptist.
Did anybody...